There we go.
Jaya Shomadaji everyone.
If not everybody knows me, I'm Teresa Cody.
I've been here at the Kanu Johari since March of 2005.
And it's been, as Shomadaji says, Sahaja life is been an adventure.
And I believe my adventure started in 1999, when I went with a yogi to drop her children
off one in Rome school and one in Dharamshala.
What I remember about Rome school was quite funny.
I was sitting, came to breakfast late and there was an American yogi there and she goes,
ah, you can't sit there.
That's Guido seat.
I just laughed and said, okay, and moved.
Then I went to Dharamshala from Rome.
There to this day has been my best meditation ever in my Sahaja life has been up at Dharamshala.
And I really feel Shomadaji was just preparing me for here.
Because when I was there, I said, I could do this for two or three months.
And right now our terms are three months long.
And how I came here was quite a story also.
I came, the couple that were here before couldn't stay for some reasons.
And I remember being really upset, disturbed, more than upset that the school wouldn't continue
running because my husband was already here.
He came in October of 2004 to be the caretaker of the land.
And I knew I was coming, but I had a job working on an organic farm.
I said, I'll come in the spring.
She'll be able to find help in the spring.
I'll wait to then.
And we quit our jobs in 2004, June of 2004, went to Guru Puja and then moved to Maine.
So I'm in Maine.
My husband's in Kannada Hari and I knew I'd come to Kannada Hari and I didn't sleep well
that night.
So then I got up in the morning.
What's so, cause I really didn't sleep well.
And then when I'm upset, I like to talk to Shamaadaji out loud.
It was just me in Maine alone.
The yogi I was living with was on holiday.
And I just prayed, Shamaadaji, we really need the school to keep going.
We really need to establish the Ganesha Tatva in the Americas.
And please help us to continue this school to grow and be an instrument for you.
So then I was very nice and then I sat and had my silent meditation.
And after that felt so peaceful, I was just like, okay, feel peace now.
Getting up, finished walking into the kitchen and make my breakfast.
And the leader at the time, Manoj Kumar had called and he says, oh, so what are your plans?
I said, well, I'm going to move to Kannada Hari, but I have, we need to get a job because,
you know, we didn't retire.
We quit and we didn't have bills.
And so he goes, oh, yes, you're going to come to Kannada Hari.
He said, yeah, in the spring.
He goes, well, how would you like to be the head dormantji?
And I was just like, oh, I was like, um, um, uh, can I get back to you?
And then of course, I said, yes, because I just saw that as, as, as that's where Shamaadaji
was leading me.
And remember telling my kids that I was very nervous that I didn't know everything in Sahaja
and he's, my kids laughed at me and said, ah, but that's what a mantra books for.
And by Shamaadaji's blessing, um, every term and from the very beginning, she has always
sent yogis that have, um, helped me learn things that I didn't know.
And now my new, um, part of my speech when staff comes, as I say, uh, you know, we all
learn from each other.
And I know you're here to teach me a lot of things as I hope that I'm able to teach you
a lot of things.
And um, so the school's been running now, like I said, since September of 2004, um,
had over probably a hundred kids, children who've come through the Khandaja Hari school.
Maybe that's partly why Shamaadaji guided me here.
As I remember, I was in the Jersey ashram and helping prepare for her breakfast while
she was staying in the Jersey ashram.
And I was very excited to help.
And I had made, um, cantaloupe and blueberries.
I love blueberries.
And we sent this in with other things on her train back in the kitchen came her tray and
it, and where the cantaloupe, where all the blueberries were still there, she had all
the cantaloupe and the Yogi who was the main cook at that time said, Shamaadaji said, blueberries
are for little girls.
So I was disappointed, but then again, it was prasad.
So it was just like, I, I just felt like it was another way of her saying, it's okay to
be, have that young at heart.
Simpa, I'm a very simple person.
What else can I tell you about Kannada Hari?
One other story that I didn't hear personally, but Yogi had told us that when they did decide
to put a school in her home here in Kannada Hari, Manoj called her and asked the blessing
to use her home.
And she said, yes, obviously.
And she said, but once you start, you can't stop.
And the Yogi who told me the story said she called back like two or three hours, hours
later and said this again, that once you start, you can't stop.
So I, how I interpret that, it's just important that we keep working on this Ganesha Chatura
of the Americas here and establish that blessing on, on this land that she's also found for
us in the early nineties and keep that going.
I don't know what else to say, cause it's so I've been here so long that like things
are so routine.
And I can tell you that it was tough closing for COVID.
Since then, we haven't really gotten back into full swing.
We used to have 15 kids were at 12.
Always trying to look for staff.
And I don't know, I think it's a really nice, different than all the other schools because
we are so small.
I remember we had an auntie two terms ago and she goes, I like this family feeling.
And that's really what you have that you're just living with a large family and working
it out.
You know, and the here you're 24 seven together.
It's town is least 15 minutes, 20 minutes by car.
So you've got to really like the nature and be able to find your inner peace and go for
walks and just enjoy where you, where, where you are is one of the, I think, one of the
sometimes that's what's hard for some people to come and some people just love it.
So it's nice to have these different schools where you can get different the different
fields of all the different schools.
But I'd be nice to have if anybody have any questions, I'd be loved to ask, ask, answer
questions.
Yeah, go ahead.
Anybody, if anybody has any questions, anything been anything tree so that you would a class
as a miracle while you've been at the school?
Hmm.
And I can think of some for my own self.
The one that really is that I that I always have always felt guided my whole life since
I was little.
And I feel that's Shama did he still does that here?
Like my first term here, you know, I let the kids play outside by themselves, because that's
what we did with our own children.
And I remember being in the kitchen, which is the front of the house, where the kids
should not be.
And I remember
Shama and then looking up and there's the kid two kids up front who shouldn't be up
front.
I don't know if that's a miracle.
But that many I have many stories like that were the what I've seen here for me, how well
the power of your attention really works.
And just with with the children with adults, if you put your attention on us in a surrendered
way, the things just work out.
I remember one lady was here and I said, I should really talk to her about that.
And I just put my attention on it and then let it go.
And then the next day, she's doing what I did that I had put my attention on for her
to do.
And I've seen that also with the kids.
But I can't really think what I would consider a miracle off the top of my head.
But yeah, I think it's been a blessing to be here.
I've grown so much.
I really my first term, I remember wondering why I was here and what boom did I ask for
to be here.
And I really feel blessed to be able to grow as a yogi around children because they're
unconditional love.
That's it.
You know, I remember another time I was in my room and I was upset and I came out after
I and a little girl just walk up to you and said, Auntie, I love you.
And then when you have something like that happen, you have no problems, none at all.
And I think this is just this school in America is really important in that establishing the
Ganesha Tatwa.
And that's what she said when she bought the land.
She said this land is now to help America establish the Ganesha Tatwa.
Does anyone else?
I just find it I find it so beautiful that you that you I don't know, just your sincerity
and your.
The simplicity of your surrender, I feel is the miracle for me.
That you're just so.
That I think it's so normal for you to be in this beautiful atmosphere of love and and
in the vibrations that you don't even realize that this this just you saying I feel surrendered.
I just feel like it just like everything works out.
I find this is a miracle in and of itself to have that kind of a constant all the time
because most of I can speak only for myself that I get that just from time to time.
Oh, yes, it will.
Everything will be fine.
But you are living that all the time.
And it's just very nice to hear.
Yeah, I have been through a lot of challenges where I've doubted that sometimes.
But recently I pulled a lead card and everything is taken care of, but believe that everything is taken care of.
I was smart.
I did tell some.
Yeah, tell some road ashram in 1981, New Year's Eve.
And I've been reading that almost every day because I've been through a lot of different
trials and tribulations here, too.
But it really once you can get once you as you're going through it, if I have my moments
of being detached and not being detached, but it's what I feel that yogis that have
come through here have helped me through this all.
Also, I met people.
You've done so much there.
I said, but I don't do it alone.
I'm going to have Shomadaji and then I have all the yogis that she sends here to help.
So I think that's more the most important thing.
I think having that faith, really having that faith in Shomadaji, really, it's just a huge
blessing that I've earned work through here, I fully believe also.
Anyone else have anything they want to ask Teresa about or any comments they want to
make?
Yeah, it's just I think it's that of all the I mean, there's so many projects where people
have their attention on their thing.
And that's when people say you've done it for so long.
I said, but this is where Shomadaji put me.
And we all do our part for Sahaj in our own way.
And I think that's just the blessings of the diversity of what she's brought us all.
Sorry, we can't hear that.
The sound quality is really bad.
And we can't hear what you're saying.
Do you want to type it?
Type it to me and then I can read it out maybe.
Oh, yeah, I'm sorry.
I was just letting you know that I checked you in.
But that's a yes.
Oh, yeah.
I'm sorry.
I'm not sure what that's happening.
What's happening with Anna?
Um, well, I have a question.
Yes, please.
Teresa, how many?
How many people from how many countries have come to help at the school?
And isn't it a miracle every time that you get enough staff?
I gosh, I've never counted that the adults, I can meet.
I mean, people from all over have been here.
Yes.
I mean, that's the whole thing that you have to, we used to have more people in the when
I first came used to have to pick, actually.
And now it's gotten where, and this is, I think, a phenomena happening all this, not
just here, but other schools, too, is that it always works out in the end, always of
getting the staff.
But yeah, we've had people from Russia, Ukraine, Estonia, Lithuania, Brazil, Colombia, Italy,
England, France.
It's a little easier now in the beginning, it was getting from people from Brazil and
Colombia before it was very difficult.
They wouldn't even make it here before.
So, yeah.
What is that because of visa difficulties or?
Yeah, back in the day, it was very anybody from Colombia, when Mary Laura was still around,
she said, forget it, they'll never get visa don't even try.
Now it's India, actually, you can't get somebody just asked how many, what is the age of the
kids here?
They're pre-K, kindergarten, and first, so it's four, five, and six.
And when I was first here, we were kept going up in grades because kids didn't want to stop
coming.
But then we had a huge wait list.
So then we cut back the grade to first grade, because it's a nice transition if we just
had a boy here come last term, and now he's just going to Dharamshala from here.
Yeah, it's the same ages as Ramaushram used to be, isn't it?
I believe so, yes.
And Boratine also.
Yes.
I don't know what was the other part of the question?
I didn't read it all.
Yeah, any plans to make more grades later?
But I think you've answered that.
Yeah, yeah, that's.
Yes, we've been trying to expand for a very long time.
It's a Maya, it's a big Maya.
But yes, we were hoping to go up.
I think it was Robert Hunter, he said that it would be good if you went up to fifth grade,
because then that it would complement Kibela.
And then it would also, if people wanted to go to Davie School now, because Davie School
starts at sixth grade.
I saw she wrote, what's stopping the expansion?
That's a good question.
I don't know.
I really don't know.
Different are the hard part for us is we change our V&D every two years.
So it's when you get new people in, then you have to start sometimes fresh again.
So you change your what?
We call our council the Vishwa Nirmala Dharma.
And it changes every two years, half go out and a new half come in.
So when you do that, then you get new people in and then the people have been there for
a while.
And then they'll say we want to review it again.
And then by the time they review it, it takes, you know, we're all volunteers, takes a while
for them to get it on, get going.
And then I think it's been, yeah.
So I don't know.
I mean, people could say it's not the collective will, but I think it's just maybe our maturity,
the maturity of our collective.
That would be great if we can give Bandhan's something needs to work out because I feel
this it's getting not just in America, I don't know what how it is in other countries, but
the Ganesha, Tod one, all this LGBTQ stuff is just it's tough stuff to watch.
Oh, yeah.
Especially in the Janaki, you know, Janaki shut day.
She's a first grade teacher and she's, you know, had to see it out there in her classroom
too.
Sorry, Teresa, what what age is first grade?
Sticks usually.
Oh, really?
Yeah.
Because you go to kindergarten when you're five.
And yeah, sixth grade is Yeah.
Well, and she's in a very lives in a very liberal state.
I'll ask that too.
So it's the parents.
Yeah.
It's different in different and she lives in a city area also.
But many years ago, she said, like had to be 10 years ago.
And this happened long ago.
And even you're not allowed to even hug the kids.
You can't call them a boy or girl.
You have to call them them.
So yeah, it's started a while ago.
It's just progressively gotten worse, or more acceptable by people in which then influences
goes into the public schools.
Yeah, there's a strong need for Ganesha tat for that.
Yeah.
So one question here is, do you have to be assessed by the local authority?
Um, no, in a sense that, uh, because we're established.
Already, we don't have a lot of Yeah, no, we don't.
I mean, they all know we're here.
Especially, it's a very small town, very small town.
They know we run a school, we do get what we call the Department of Health.
They're the ones who inspect our kitchen, and make sure that we're doing everything
sanitizing and preparing food properly and all that.
But they do come every term they come and inspect us.
But that's the only like authority type thing.
We do have to do like water samples, but we have informed the local school district.
We're here.
We've told the local fire department, which is volunteers, we're here, but that's pretty
on authority level that we have to do.
Teresa, do you still need volunteers for this coming session?
No, right now we're pretty good.
We possibly may need one more, but right now we're ready to go.
We start March, the kids come back on March 23rd.
We'll run to June 8th.
I think we cut it by one week, so we didn't get too close to Adi Shaktipuja.
I'm just sitting enjoying the vibrations after having given that band room.
They're really cool.
Yeah.
There's been a lot of work going on now.
I mean, there's all, I'm trying to be detached, but it is our desire to have it here on the
land.
But some people have other ideas of possibly buying a building somewhere else.
Let's see what gets worked out.
And I'm going to be 62 this year.
So I've told the, we have a school board also, and I've told them, listen, I would
like to be Auntie Carolyn.
Auntie Carolyn came here for many years and was like the grandma and helped out.
And I'd like to pass off the responsibility now.
Let's see how Shimon-Oji works that out.
I think like Mary Kuhn always says up in Davis School, it's nice to have that change
because you don't know what will bring, you know, the next person will bring into.
And I remember telling Florina Wallenberger when I came because I thought this was going
to be a temporary position.
It wasn't anything I applied for.
I mean, I applied sort of, I guess, to Shimon-Oji.
But I was told Florina when I came because she was on the board at that time.
And she said, I said, well, as soon as you find somebody that's more suitable or more
qualified, just let me know.
I'll step aside.
It's no problem.
So but here I am 19 years later.
So I guess that person hasn't gone forward yet.
Like I said, I feel it's I've learned so much in my being here and growing and just being
me.
It's been nice.
I've met a lot of beautiful people coming through here.
What's the proportion of Indian children to white Americans?
It's pretty high, more Indian, but it's I consider them American too, because they've
been born here.
But yeah, that's our it's more definitely more Indian kids than white kids, if that's
what you want to say.
And then the second half of the question is, are children of new yogis coming to the school
as well?
Not yet.
We have an auntie who's coming from Vancouver.
Her name is Emily.
She's only been in Sahaj for like five years.
And this is her third time coming to help us be an auntie.
And she has a daughter that's three and a half.
So maybe she would be one of the first ones.
But I think, yeah, I don't know.
I don't think we've had a and maybe I don't know, Joe would know if we have more younger
new people coming.
I think it's more.
Adults with their kids are grown or older, too old for Kanu Johari.
And you haven't quite been there yet long enough yet to get the children of children
that have been through the school.
No, we did have it's the second one.
It was really fun.
Last term, we had a young girl who was here.
She's 19.
She was a student.
And just by coincidence, her dorm auntie was also an auntie last term.
So that was fun to see.
It was interesting to have the student and her dorm auntie both here.
But now her students taking care of kids also.
Her first welcome was after the parents left, one of the girls.
Felt got sick and threw up and and Lalita goes, oh, my gosh, is this what I'm going
to be doing and catching it in her hands?
So I said, no, it'll turn around.
Trust me, it was a good opening for her, I guess.
But she has such fond memories of here when she was here as a little as a student, too.
And there's another message, just big thanks for all the years and all the love that you've
given to our kids there.
Thank you.
It's been my again, like I said, my blessing and my it's one thing that I usually do before
even we start looking for staff and I ask I ask him one of my meditations to Shomadaji
if she still wants me to be here.
And so far, I keep getting yes.
So when I get the no, then I'll that'll be my time.
But it's my true desire if it's meant the Shomadaji's will, if we do get somebody else
that I'd like to at least teach somewhat that I know because a lot of it is a living
experience and you're going to have to live and learn on your own.
Like I did that some of the simple stuff of mostly helping her with a person with like
when kids get sick, how do you what do you do and how to help?
Yeah, just navigate certain things that I've learned.
I would feel really privileged if I was able to do that.
Okay, I think if there's no more questions, I'm going to stop the recording.